Interview Questions set 1


What is the difference between AI and ML.
What is Machine Learning?
What are the different types of Machine Learning.
What is the difference between supervised and unsupervised learning?
What Are the Applications of Supervised Machine Learning in Modern Businesses?
What are the difference between regression and classification?
What are the different types of regression ?
What is Linear Regression?
Which machine learning algorithm is known as the lazy learner and why is it called so?
Differentiate between K-Means clustering and KNN algorithms?
Suggestion:
K-Means clustering is Unsupervised Learning, where we don’t have any Labels present, in other words, no Target Variables and thus we try to cluster the 
data based upon their coordinates and try to establish the nature of the cluster based on the elements filtered for that cluster.
Which one is important? Model’s Performance or the Model’s Accuracy?

What are the steps of developing an ML model?
Define training dataset and testing dataset.
How Will You Know that whether you have to choose regression or classification based algorithm for your model?
What are Loss Function and Cost Functions? Explain the key Difference Between them?
What is Clustering?
What is Reinforcement Learning?
What are the difference between continuous and discrete data.
What is Time series data?
What is the difference between stochastic gradient descent (SGD) and gradient descent (GD)?
What is the difference between logistic regression and  Decision Tree?
What are the five popular algorithms we use in Machine Learning?
Explain each datatype with example
Continuous
Discrete
Structured
Unstructured
Time series data
What are the functions of the libraries Numpy and pandas.
What are the libraries in ml used for visualization purpose.
Define leaf node, root node and decision node in decision tree algorithm.
What function we use in logistic regression. define that function.
What is entropy.
What are the different way by which decision tree algorithm creates tree.
Define Gini index.






