Overfitting & Underfitting:-

Bias - Bias Means error of the training data.
Variance - Variance means error of the testing data.

Good Model or Generalized Model
Accuracy during training as well as testing is very high.
It is able to perform well on training dataset as well as on testing dataset.
For the best model – High accuracy during training as well as high accuracy during testing.

Low Training error
Low Testing Error

Low Bias
Low Variance


Overfitting
Accuracy during training is very high but accuracy during testing is very low then this condition is 
called overfitting.
It is able to perform well on training dataset but it does not perform well on testing dataset.

Low Training error
High Testing Error

Low Bias
High Variance


Underfitting
Accuracy during training is very low and so accuracy during testing is also low, this 
condition is called overfitting.

It  does not perform well on training dataset as well as on testing dataset.

High Training error
High Testing Error

High Bias
High Variance

Example
Good Model. or Most Generalised Model.
Training Error - 1% |  Testing Error - 1%

Overfitting
Training Error - 1% |  Testing Error - 25%

Underfitting
Training Error - 20% | Testing Error - 20%

How to avoid the Overfitting in Model:
Cross-Validation
Training with more data
Removing features
Regularization
Ensembling

How to avoid underfitting:
1. Increase model complexity
2. Increase number of features

Goodness of fit
goal of the machine learning models to achieve the goodness of fit. 
The model with a good fit is between the underfitted and overfitted model.

Bias and Variance tradeoff
We need to have a model that is neither underfitting and nor overfitting. which is called as 
Bias-Variance trade-off.
If there is no balance between variance and bias then the model will not be able to generalize a failure
to perform well on new data.


AssignmentS:

Define bias and variance.
What is generalized model?
What is overfitting?
What is underfitting?
What is bias variance tradeoff?
