SVM

Support Vector Machine or SVM is one of the most popular Supervised Learning algorithms, 
which is used for Classification as well as Regression problems. 

The SVM algorithm helps to find the best line or decision boundary, called hyperplane that classify the data points .

SVM can be of two types:
Linear SVM(LSVM): Linear SVM is used for linearly separable data, which means if a dataset can be classified into 
two classes by using a single straight line, then such data is termed as linearly separable data, and classifier is used called as Linear SVM classifier.

Non-linear SVM(NLSVM): Non-Linear SVM is used for non-linearly separated data, which means if a dataset cannot
be classified by using a straight line, then such data is termed as non-linear data and classifier used is called as Non-linear SVM classifier.


Hyperplane:

The SVM algorithm helps to find the best line or decision boundary, this best boundary or region is called as a hyperplane.
We always create a hyperplane that has a maximum margin, which means the maximum distance between the data points.
The hyperplane with maximum margin is called the optimal hyperplane. 

Support Vectors:
The data points or vectors that are the closest to the hyperplane. 
SVM algorithm finds the closest point of the lines from both the classes. These points are called support vectors. 

Margin: 
The distance between the support vectors  is called as margin  and the goal of SVM is to maximize this margin.

NLSVM
for non-linear data, we cannot draw a single straight line, here we use NLSVM Classifier

Kernel Trick / Kernel function:
A kernel transforms a low-dimensional input data space into a higher dimensional space. 
So, it converts non-linear separable problems to linear separable problems by adding more dimensions to it. 
Thus, the kernel trick helps us to build a more accurate classifier. Hence, it is useful in non-linear separation problems.

In the context of SVMs, there are 4 popular kernels – Linear kernel, Polynomial kernel, Radial Basis Function (RBF) kernel and Sigmoid kernel. 


Assignments:

What is SVM?
What are different Types of SVM?
Define Support Vectors, Margin, Hyperplane.
What is the difference between Linearly Separable Dataset & Non-Linearly Separable Dataset.
How Kernel Trick is useful in NLSVM.
Define Kernel.
What are the different kernels available in SVM. 


