Ensemble technique is a technique which uses multiple weak learners to produce a strong model for regression and classification.
In ensemble learning, many base models like classifiers and regressors are generated and combined together so that they give better results.

Boosting. Building multiple models (typically of the same type) each of which learns to fix the prediction 
errors of a prior model in the sequence of models.


Gradient Boosting:
Gradient Boosting is an supervised machine learning algorithm used for classification and regression problems.
Gradient Boosting is a popular boosting algorithm. In gradient boosting, each predictor corrects its predecessor’s error. 
It is an ensemble technique which uses multiple weak learners to produce a strong model for regression and classification.
Here each predictor is trained using the residual errors of predecessor as labels.


Each tree predicts a label and final prediction is given by the formula,



Steps:

1. Calculate the average/mean of the target variable.

2. calculate the residuals for each sample.
Residual = Actual Value - Predicted Value

3. use  decision tree algorithm to train the model considering residual as label . We build a tree with the goal of predicting the Residuals.

4. Repeat steps 3 to 5 until the number of iterations matches the number specified by the hyper parameter(numbers of estimators)

5. Once trained, use all of the trees in the ensemble to make a final prediction as to value of the target variable. 
The final prediction will be equal to the mean we computed in Step 1 plus all the residuals predicted by the trees 
that make up the forest multiplied by the learning rate.

final prediction = Average Price + LR*Residual predicted by DT1 + LR*Residual Predicted by DT2 + .......LR*Residual Predicted by DT N

Here,
LR = Learning rate
DT = Decision tree
 
Assignments:
1. What is ensemble technique? 
3. What is gradient Boosting?
4. What are the steps of gradient boosting?